These are not rigid rules and are meant to be used as reference in case you're not sure what to do in most circumstances. We're here to have fun and make sure everyone else has fun, too.

--Events
Don't be shy about suggesting event ideas! Remember that you won't be able to please everyone every time, but take criticism and use it to make things better for as many players as possible.
An event is 'big' if it requires a sizable amount of the crew to participate in order to function. It's 'small' if most or even all of the crew can easily opt out of participating.
If you plan to do something big, alert other staff on discord ahead of time. Also, check to make sure someone else doesn't have a plan for a full event before doing anything.
If you plan to do something small, you only need to alert in-game staff so you don't get funny looks when you're spawning stuff somewhere or forcibly triggering events. If something small starts to get out of control for whatever reason, alert staff on discord.
Avoid forcing players to participate if they don't want to be part of an event, if possible.
Try to get other admins to oversee what's happening in case you need someone else to suddenly reply to admin pms, as you will certainly be busy if you are directly involved in the event.

--Discord
Don't mess around with channels without talking about it first because they're in their places for a reason.
Make sure people stick to the purpose of the relevant channels. #offtopic is unique in that just about anything can go in there provided it isn't nsfw.

--AdminPMs or Discord aftermath
Refer to rule zero. If you have trouble remembering that, see Discord.
Avoid making matters public, it will just result in misinformation and salt getting thrown around and getting in everyone's eyes, figuratively speaking
Do not assume someone's intentions are bad unless they've proven otherwise. Everyone's trying to do the right thing, most of the time. If it's a player-to-player problem, ask the player if they've tried to solve it with the other person(s) before coming to admin pms.
Try not to sound patronizing when trying to gather information or just talking things out. Nobody likes it when they feel like someone's looking down their nose at them.
Don't dish out punishments without fair warning. It's possible that something may have been accidental or misguided, or the player may not even realize they've done anything wrong.
If your emotions are starting to rise or you're just having a bad day, try to hand the issue off an issue to another admin. Nobody likes dealing with an angry admin, especially the admin in question.
